With the Matplotlib magic
having set the back end for us,
we're going to start our plotting journey
by making a graph using the plot function.
A plot has two axis.
An x-axis, along the horizon, and
a y-axis, which runs vertically.
First, let's import the pyplot
scripting layer as plt.
All of the functions which we'll
run against the pyplot module
are part of the scripting
layer of the architecture.
Let's take a look at the plot
function by looking at the docstring.
If you're not used to seeing it, this kind
of python function declaration with two
arguments, the star args and the double
star kw args, can be a bit obscure.
What's being said here by the star args is
that the function supports any number of
unnamed arguments.
The DubStar Q also means that it
supports any number of named arguments.
This makes the function declaration very
flexible since you can pass in basically
any number of arguments, named or not.
But it makes it difficult to know
what is an appropriate argument.
Reading on, we see that the arguments
will be interpreted as X, Y pairs.
So let's try with just one
data point at position (3, 2).
Here we see that the return
value is aligned to the object.
And we see our first figure appear.
We don't see any data points though,
which is a bit odd.
It turns out that the third
argument should be a string,
which signifies how we want
that data point to be rendered.
Let's use a period for a dot and
we'll see that our data point shows up.
There we go.
You'll notice that the subsequent
costs of plot have actually
updated our visualization.
This is a particular feature
of this interactive back end.
Other back ends might not.
For instance, you might see some web
tutorials using the older percent
matplotlib in line magic instead of
the percent matplotlib notebook magic.
The inline magic is not interactive.
Subsequent cause create new plots
as new cells in the notebook.
This can be handy too.
I think here's where some of the confusion
with matplotlib as a library
tends to come from.
In the last lecture, I explained
that there's an artist layer, and
that it is figures,
with subplots and axes and
data points which are rendered
as patches onto these axes.
But we haven't seen any of that here.
Instead we've just called one
function on a module named plot.
So what's going on?
You see, the pie plot scripting interface
is managing a lot of objects for you.
It keeps track of the latest figure,
of sub plots and of the axis objects.
Moreover, it actually hides some of
these behind methods of its own.
So, the pie plot module itself has
a function which is called plot.
But it redirects calls to this
function to the current axis object.
This makes for
a significant learning curve and
you'll see many discussions in web
tutorials stack overflow where
people are confused by these two different
approaches to making figures show up.
So let's take a look at a comparable
approach that's a bit more verbose.
And some people would call this
the matplotlib object API.
But I think it's more accurate to
think of it as directly interfacing
with the artist layer instead.
First I'm going to import a new
backend called FigureCanvasAgg
I don't have to use the modular level use
function since we're not calling this from
the scripting API.
All to import the figure object.
Then we'll go ahead and create a new
figure and associate it with the backend.
We can then add a subplot
directly to this.
We're going to talk more about subplots
in a future lecture but this number, 111,
actually means that we just want one plot.
The return value for
the subplot is the axes object,
which contains methods for plotting.
So, we can plot our image as per usual.
Now, the backend that we're using,
the one for the jupiter notebooks,
isn't able to render this directly.
Since it expects the scripting layer pie
plot to have created all of the objects.
So here, we'll save the figure
to a png file instead.
Then we'll do a quick html cell magic and
execute that, and see the rendered image.
That's a lot more work than
using the scripting layer.
The scripting layer,
though, isn't magic, it's just doing some
of the behind the scenes work for us.
For instance,
when we make a call to pyplot's plot.plot,
the scripting layer actually looks to see
if there's a figure that currently exists
and if not, it creates a new one.
It then returns the axis for this figure.
We can actually get access to the figure
using the GCF function, which stands for
get current figure, of Pi Plot, and
get access to the axes as well using
the GCA function, get current axes.
Okay, let's create a new
figure with Pi Plot.
This means it won't update our
figure at the top of this file.
Then let's make a plot, grab the axes,
and set the x and y limits.
We can do this using the axis function.
This function takes four
parameters: a minimum value for
x, which we'll put at zero, a maximum
value for x, which we'll put it at six.
In corresponding minimum and maximum
values for Y which we'll put it zero and
10.
Since we're doing this
with the scripting layer
once we run the jupiter cell it render
to the NBA back end as we might expect.
All right, one more demonstration on the
fundamentals of putting together a plot.
You can add artists to
an axes object at any time.
Pi plot i doing that for
us when we call the plot function.
It's determining what shape we want from
the string, the location associate with
that shape, then it's creating a patch
object and adding that to the axes.
If we make subsequent calls to
the plot function this will
add more data to our chart.
You can see that when this is done, the
points are rendered in different colors.
As the axis recognizes them
as different data series.
We can go further with the axis object
to the point where we can actually get
all of the child objects
that that axis contains.
We do this with the axis
get children function.
Here we can see that there's actually
three line 2D objects contained
in this axis.
These are our data points.
The number of spines, which are actual
renderings of the borders of the frame,
including tic markers,
two axis objects, and
a bunch of text,
which are the labels for the chart.
There's even a rectangle,
which is the background for the axis.
Okay.
There is a whirlwind tour of how to
be productive with matplotlib and
make your first chart.
In the next lecture, we're going to go
through some of the different built in
charting options which
are available to us.